.\" Man page for jsub
.\" Licensed under CC-BY-SA
.\" Created by Marc-André Pelletier
.\"
.TH JSUB 1 2014-08-21 1.0.10 "Wikimedia Labs Tools jobutils"
.SH NAME
jsub, jstart, qcronsub \- submit jobs to the grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jsub
[options] program [args]

.B jstart
[options] program [args]

.B qcronsub
[options] program [args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jsub
submits a job to the grid.
.B qcronsub
submits a job only if a job with the same name is not already queued or running.
.B jstart
submits a self-restarting job on the continuous queue.
.SH OPTIONS
Options include many (but not all) qsub options, along with:
.TP
.BI \-stderr
Send errors to stderr rather than the error output file.
.TP
.BI \-mem\  value
Request
.I value
amount of memory for the job (number suffixed by "k", "m" or "g").
.TP
.BI \-once
Only start one job with that name, fail if another is already started
or queued (default if invoked as
.B jstart
or
.BR qcronsub ).
.TP
.BI \-continuous
Start a self-restarting job on the continuous queue (default if
invoked as
.BR jstart ).
.TP
.BI \-umask\  value
Set umask for output files if they don't exist.
.TP
.BI \-quiet
Suppress output if job was submitted successfully.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.BR jsub ,
.B jstart
and
.B qcronsub
return 0 on successful submission, and a different exit code
otherwise.
.SH NOTES
Unlike qsub, if you do not specify output and error files, output is
appended by default to files named
.I <job>.err
and
.I <job>.out
in your home directory (without job numbers), including errors from
starting the job itself.

Additionally, you need to provide an executable on the command line,
these utilities will not read a script from standard input.
.SH AUTHORS
Marc-André Pelletier, Petr Bena
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qsub (1)
